[IMP] accounting: add loan management (#11035)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/bank/loans.rst

> :show-content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This metadata markup is only necessary if you have other rst pages under a page (not the case here)

================
Loans management
================

> Odoo lets you manage your loans to have a comprehensive list of all loans undertaken by your company
> in order to maintain a holistic and forecasted view of upcoming due dates (e.g., cash forecast).
> Set up your amortization schedule—or import it—and let Odoo automatically handle monthly interest
> and principal adjustments such that your financial reports are always accurate with minimal effort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Odoo's loan management gives a comprehensive list of all loans undertaken by your company in order
to maintain a holistic and forecasted view of upcoming due dates (e.g., cash forecast). Set up
amortization schedules—or import them—and let Odoo automatically handle monthly interest and
principal adjustments so that your financial reports are always accurate with minimal effort.
```

Create a new loan
-----------------

> You can create a new loan by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Accounting --> Loans`. When
> creating a new loan, you can create your amortization schedule in three ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new loan by going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Accounting --> Loans`. When creating a
new loan, there are three options for how to create amortization schedules:
```

> - By importing it from a supported file;
> - By calculating it from a couple of values (e.g. the :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, the
>   :guilabel:`Duration`, etc.);
> - By manually filling in the lines of the schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- importing it from a supported file
- calculating it from multiple input values (e.g. the :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, the
  :guilabel:`Duration`, etc.) using the :guilabel:`Compute` smart button.
- manually filling in the lines of the schedule
```

Author: Compute is actually a normal button, not smart, I've just removed the smart from your suggestion

Reviewer 2: Wow yeah it is. Don't know what I was thinking haha.

> - importing it from a supported file
> - calculating it from multiple input values (e.g. the :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, the
>   :guilabel:`Duration`, etc.) using the :guilabel:`Compute` button.
> - manually filling in the lines of the schedule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- importing it from a supported file;
- calculating it from multiple input values (e.g., the :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, the
  :guilabel:`Duration`, etc.) using the :guilabel:`Compute` button;
- manually filling in the lines of the schedule.
```

Reviewer 2: This one was my mistake. I suggested removing the semi-colons but looking at it again, it's better with. Sorry about that one @RicGR98 !

> In either case, 3 different fields are required for each line of the amortization schedule: the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In each case, three different fields are required for each line of the amortization schedule: the
```

> :guilabel:`Date`, the :guilabel:`Principal` and the :guilabel:`Interest`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Date`, the :guilabel:`Principal`, and the :guilabel:`Interest`.
```

> The :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, :guilabel:`Interest` and :guilabel:`Duration` fields will be red

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Amount Borrowed`, :guilabel:`Interest`, and :guilabel:`Duration` fields will be red
```

> if the sum of the lines does not match the totals amounts you have entered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if the sum of the lines does not match the total of the amortization schedule lines.
```
I'm trying to clarify what exactly is being totaled - is this correct?

Author: Exact!

Loan entries mechanism
----------------------

> When the amount borrowed is credited to your bank account, it should be transferred to a long-term
> account (defined in the loan settings). Then, upon the validation of the loan, Odoo will create all
> the necessary journal entries such that you can always have a holistic and forecast view of upcoming
> due dates. The entire process is completely automated with a reclassification of long-term and
> short-term principal reclassification mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the amount borrowed is credited to a bank account, it should be transferred to a long-term
account (defined in the :guilabel:`Loan Settings` tab). Then, upon the validation of the loan, Odoo
creates the necessary journal entries so that there is always a holistic and forecasted view of
upcoming due dates. The entire process is completely automated with a long-term and short-term
principal reclassification mechanisms.
```
Added a gui label and rephrased a few things. Can you double check that the last line is clear and accurate? You had "reclassification" in there twice which seemed wrong to me but I want to be sure.

Author: Woops indeed, it's better like that

> principal reclassification mechanisms.

Reviewer: It's a single mechanism, or two different mechanism**s**?

For each line of the amortization schedule, Odoo creates the following entries:

A payment entry on the same date that

>   - debits the principal amount from the long-term account;
>   - debit the interest amount from the expense account;
>   - credits the payment amount to the short-term account: this is the amount that will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - debits the principal amount to the long-term account;
  - debits the interest amount to the expense account;
  - credits the payment amount to the short-term account: this is the amount that will be
```
I wasn't sure about if you debit *from* an account or *to* an account. "From" sounded weird to me, and the internet suggested that "to" is better here :)

Author: Are we sure about this one ? This sounds very weird to me. And I kinda "like" the fact that we `debit from`, then we `credit to` to better highlight the transfer.

Author: Alrighty, good points, requested changes have been pushed :)

>     withdrawn by the bank

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    withdrawn by the bank.
```

A reclassification entry on the same date that

>   - debits the sum of the principal amounts of the next 12 months from the long-term account;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - debits the sum of the principal amounts of the next 12 months to the long-term account;
```

Author: Same question ^^

  - credits the sum of the principal amounts of the next 12 months to the short-term account.

A reversed entry of the reclassification entry on *the next day* that

>   - simply reverses the previous one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - simply reverses the previous one.
```

>   - simply reverses the previous one.

Reviewer: Keep this as one sentence, the bullet point isn't necessary (although I get why you did it)

> With this mechanism, month after month, the short-term account is always up to date, with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this mechanism, month after month, the short-term account is always up to date with the
```

current short-term due amounts.

Closing a loan
--------------

> By default, a loan will be closed whenever its last payment entry is posted. However, if can also
> be manually closed (e.g. because it is being paid off early) by clicking on the :guilabel:`Close`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a loan will be closed whenever its last payment entry is posted. However, it can also
be manually closed (e.g., because it is being paid off early) by clicking on the :guilabel:`Close`
```

> button. A wizard will appear asking you from which date the loan should be closed. All draft entries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
button. A wizard will appear asking from which date the loan should be closed. All draft entries
```

after this date will be deleted too.

A loan can also be cancelled. In that case, all entries will be deleted even if they were already
posted.

Loans Analysis Report
---------------------

By going to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> Loans Analysis`, you can access a
report with a pivot view of your ongoing loans. By default, the report shows the principal,

> interest, and total payment for each year for the duration of the loan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interest, and total payment for each year for the loan duration.
```

> report where you will see a pivot view of your ongoing loans. By default, the report shows
> the principal, interest and total payment for each year for the duration of the loan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
report with a pivot view of your ongoing loans. By default, the report shows the principal,
interest, and total payment for each year for the duration of the loan.

```
